# Models Documentation

**Table of Contents**

| No. | Model |
| --- | ----- |
| 1.  | [Product](#product-model) |

---

## 1. Product Model

The Product model represents a product in our system. 
This documentation provides an overview of its attributes, 
properties, methods, validation rules and example usages.

## Properties

### `Id` *(Guid)*

- **Description**: The unique identifier for the product.
- **Usage**: Used for referencing and identifying the product within the system.
- **Example**: `Guid productId = product.Id;`
- **Accessor**: `get` and `private set`
- **Notes**: Its value will be auto generated by the EF core.
- **MS Docs**: 
	- [EF core Primary Key](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/ef/core/modeling/keys?tabs=data-annotations)
	- [EF core Generated Values](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/ef/core/modeling/generated-properties?tabs=data-annotations)

### `Name` *(string)*

- **Description**: The name of the product.
- **Usage**: Provides the product's name for display and identification.
- **Example**: `string productName = product.Name;`
- **Accessor**: `get` and `set`
- **Validation Rules**:
    1. Name cannot be null value.
    1. Name cannot have leading or trailing white-space characters.
    1. The length of Name cannot be 0.
    1. The length of Name cannot be more than 255.

### `Price` *(decimal)*

- **Description**: The price of the product.
- **Usage**: Represents the cost of the product in decimal format.
- **Example**: `decimal productPrice = product.Price;`
- **Accessor**: `get` and `set`
- **Validation Rules**:
    1. Price cannot be null value.
    1. Price cannot be equal to 0.
    1. Price cannot be a negative value.
    1. Price cannot have more than 2 significant decimal places.
    1. Price cannot be more than 1,000,000.00.

### `ImageUri` *(string)*

- **Description**: The URI of the product's image.
- **Usage**: Points to the location of the product's image for display.
- **Example**: `string productImageUri = product.ImageUri;`
- **Accessor**: `get` and `set`
- **Validation Rules**:
    1. ImageUri cannot be null value.
    1. ImageUri cannot have leading or trailing white-space characters.
    1. ImageUri cannot be an invalid Uri.
    1. ImageUri cannot reference a file with an extension other than `.jpg`,`.jpeg` or `.png`. 

--- 

## Example Usage
   
Creating new model instance
```
Product product = new Product
{
    Name = "Example Product",
    Price = 29.99,
    ImageUri = "https://example.com/images/example-product.jpg"
};
```

Accessing properties
```
Guid productId = product.Id;
string productName = product.Name;
decimal productPrice = product.Price;
string productImageUri = product.ImageUri;
```
---